So let's make sure we can update a place for dead when we go to update place.
We want to retrieve that place by I.D. and at the moment this fails because I worked with dummy places
thus far and then there we can't find a place for you locked in user or for the place I.D. in the U
or L which we actually tried to do.
So this won't work.
Instead I want to fetch the place data from the back.
And because that is a common requirement that you have a single page with details about some entity
in your application and you want to fetch the latest data from the back end to display it there.
Now conveniently on the back end we have a route for this this get route where we then trigger get placed
by I.D. in the end.
So now we just need to send a request to this U.R.L. from our front end.
So here I will import use age if you client from shared Hook's age should if you hook and justice before
initialize it here.
So here I can use object D structuring thereafter called H to be client.
And now we already have it is loading state here.
Let's get rid of that.
This is now managed power hook.
So here we have is loading.
We have error.
We have send request and clear error all the things we already worked with.
Now I want to send the request when this page loads to load the latest place data for that we need to
use a fact which is already imported and we will need to use state to manage our loaded place data as
well so we'll add a state here loaded place and set loaded place and manage this with use.
State and initially that's undefined then here instead of using our dummy places I want to use use effect
to send a request and fetch my data.
So here in use in fact I will have sent request as a dependency and I'll also have to place I.D. which
we get from the U R L as a as a dependency and in that function.
I now want to fetch a place here.
So just as before I'll add a fetch place function in here so that I can conveniently use async await
and call fetch place immediately thereafter and in fetch place we can now send the request away to response
and there we got our response data and here of course we need to provide a U R L on that request the
U R L is h to be a local host five thousand slash API slash places and now if you verified this on the
backend slash some place I.D..
So here we simply inject the place idea we got from the U R L this should get us a place of course for
whatever reason this could fail those so let's actually catch any errors we don't need to handle them
here though because we do have error handling built into our custom HBP client hook and therefore here
we just need to worry about the success case if I got my places I can call set loaded place and now
on the back if we have a look at the places controller we see that get placed by I.D. in the end returns
an object with a place key which contains that loaded place.
So here we want to set the loaded place to response data dark place so this will fetch a place now whenever
we fetch a place we always want to update our form data right before we did this year with the identified
place.
Now we can actually grab this set form data call here removed his entire use of fact called down there
and instead.
Not just set the load loaded place but actually set foreign data and here use response data dot place
dot title response data dot place dot description that just means that we should add set form data as
a dependency here now with that we're updating the form correctly we're storing our loaded place now.
Down there we need to check if we got a loaded place because if we don't do that then I want to render
this fallback otherwise if we're loading I'll render this though we can do better now actually we can
use a loading spinner here.
Make sure you add the import at the top and you import loading spinner from shared components UI elements
loading spinner and whilst where they are already we can import error modal from shared components UI
elements error modal as well so that we can also output errors.
So now we got that imported and if we now scroll down we're rendering or loading spinner here if we
are loading and if we're not loading and we got a place then here I want to return react fragment so
that I can also again use my error modal here and render error modal like this forward D.R. which we
get and point on clear at clear error function and of course you could all do justice before check is
loading here and I'll put a loading spinner here if you wanted to.
I just also want to show this alternative of doing this in an extra statement.
Now one extra tweak a i apply here is I want to check if we don't have a loaded place and we're not
having an error or DNA one to show this fallback otherwise we should make it to disk block here.
And if we now save this let's give it a try let's authenticate here log in and now click on edits and
there you saw could not find place.
Briefly before this is loaded.
However the form is definitely not initialized correctly here.
And the reason for seeing could not find a place is that I check is loading too late I should do this
before I check if we're maybe not loading anymore but we got no place in error so I should have this
order here.
But the reason for the form being empty is a different one.
We're simply rendering the form too early and therefore the input gets initialized too early.
Here want to check if we're not loading and we got a loaded place
and only in that case I will render the form with that added If we now safeties and we log in again
go to our place here and added it and we're still not seeing our initial values here.
Now we can fix this by changing our logic here in the form a bit more I'm checking for not loading and
if we have to load a place.
Actually we can also use that loaded place which we know will have the initial data from the back end
to set our initial title here and set this and set this initial validity to true therefore.
And down there we can set this to loaded place start description and setting this to true and that should
do the trick if we now save that we log in real quick again
we go to edit here now it is this initialized correctly.
Now briefly you see the loading spinner there because our data of course arrives super quick here in
this application and then here we have all our data.
Now let's make sure that we don't just load the data we want to add it but that we actually also are
able to change it and then click Update place and stored it on the back and note to store our update
on the back end.
We got a specific route of course in the places routes we got this patch road where we just need to
point at API slash places slash place I.D. and where we then add the title and description to the body
off that request.
So on the front end in update place J.S. in the places pages folder we want to trigger that whenever
we Indians submit this form.
So here this will now be a async function so that I can use async await in there.
And then here we want to send a request we want to send a request to the back end no justice before
I will use back tricks here so that we can easily inject data into the string and we'll point at a local
host five thousand slash API slash places slash the idea of that place.
Which of course is place I.D. the value we already have available here which we're extracting from our
front end route from our front end.
You are El now.
This is not a default request.
So we need to add a second argument where we said patch instead of the default of get I want to add
a body and this has to be stringy fight data.
So Jason data and there we should have our new title which we get from form state inputs titled value
and the new description which is form state inputs description value.
And last but not least let's also add our headers here and there you know we need to add this content
type application.
Jason header for to back and to parse the incoming data correctly.
We can then await this and wrap it in try catch to make sure that we only continue in the success case.
So here I catch any potential errors but I don't do anything with it.
And then here and try I await the response.
I'm not too interested in the response actually because I just want to redirect the user if we have
a success response.
So for that from the react router Dom package we can import to you U.S. history hook which we already
used before and then use it here to create such a history object which then gives us all these functions
to move the user around in the front end navigation and use you and use history here after a waiting
for our response.
Excuse me here.
After waiting for a response call history and then maybe push to slash nothing and it's up to you to
which route you want to redirect actually here it maybe makes more sense to redirect to the overview
of places.
And for Dad we need the user I.D. because we get to that place as per user overview page by encoding
the user I.D. into you are L and to get Dad's user I.D. We need to tap into our context because that
is where we manage our user I.D. of the logged in user and for Dad we all need to import all context
from shared context off context and then here in update place maybe right at the start we can tap into
this context by using used context and pointing it off context.
And now with that we get this off object and when we want to redirect we redirect at slash then the
user I.D. and then slash nothing was it right.
If we check aptly as all places are loaded for user I.D. slash places actually of course.
So slash places at the end with that if we save this this should actually already be all if we go to
our application and we log in real quick and I go to my places and I added this and add exclamation
marks here a great place in Munich.
Definitely worth a visit.
And I click Update place we see the loading spinner and then we are redirect that.
So this definitely works and you see the changes reflected here.
And of course all the reflect that if I reload right then it's still data we are locked out now but
it's still there.
So this worked just fine.
And we are now able to update places as well.
So let's finish this up by now making sure we can all delete places.